# framer
framer provide a user interface to create the required markup for "blended" images in [the Homebrewery](https://homebrewery.naturalcrit.com).

At the time of this writing, the markup that is generated is good for homebrewery's custom v3 markdown syntax.

It *does not* work in reverse-- you cannot import markup from the Homebrewery to view your brew in framer.

## Usage
The app has two panes, the left and the right.  

### Left Pane
The left contains info about the site (click on 'info' to expand) and has the *output* generated by the app.  That output is in two chunks:

1. Text Editor:  this output can be copy/pasted into the main editor in the Homebrewery.
2. Style Editor:  the output here should be copy/pasted into the Style Editor in the Homebrewery (found near the snippets, with a paint brush icon).  This output doesn't change.

### Right Pane
The right pane is where you will interact most and features a replica homebrewery page.  When you first open the app, you'll see an *image* blended into the page.  If you hover your mouse pointer over the bottom of the pane, a toolbar will pop up with some options.

#### Toolbar
1. Zoom In/Zoom Out buttons:  You can zoom the page in and out with these, which can helpful if you have a smaller screen and you want to see the entirety of the page.  Note, right now this doesn't work well when the *overlay* (discussed in a minute) is visible.
2. Frame/Mask/Image buttons:  These buttons let you select which component of the blended image you are currently interacting with.  Only one can be active at a time, and clicking on the already active button will mean *none* are active.
3. Two text inputs:  The **first text input** just takes a name related to the image.  The outer div/frame/mask element will be given an `id` equal to this input ('dinosaur-mask'), and the actual image/`img` element inside the div/frame/mask will have the `id` equal to the input, minus the `-mask`  (so just 'dinosaur').  The **second text input** is for a URL and is dependent on which component is *active*.   If either **frame** or **mask** are active, the URL entered here represents the image being used as a *mask*.    If **image** is active, the URL represents the actual image you want shown.  If no components are active, anything entered in this input will do nothing.

#### General Walkthrough
After opening the app, click the **Image** button in the toolbar.   Write a name for your image (a-z characters) in the first text box.  In the second box, paste the URL to your desired image.   Your URL should end in .jpg or .png.

Next, click the **Frame** button in the toolbar.  In the second text box, paste the URL to the image you want to use as a *mask* (see below).  

Now, you can move your frame by clicking and dragging inside the square overlay box to position your frame.  You can resize it using the handles in the corners.  You can resize it proportionally using the outer handle in the top-left corner if needed.  Note, you may need to move your frame around in order to view some handles if they go off screen (sorry).  

You can move and resize the image itself, within the frame, if the **Image** toolbar button is active.   You can also move the mask inside the frame if the **mask** button is active...but you cannot resize the mask.  It is always 100% the height and width of the frame component.

Once you have it the way you want, you can copy the output markup from the left pane and paste it into your brew (be sure to copy both Text and Style editor outputs and put them in the right place in your Homebrewery document).

## What is a Mask?
Masking is a common thing in graphic design, but a little hard to describe without having visual examples.  For our purposes in framer, a *mask* is just a .png image file that has at least some portion of its pixels set as 'transparent'.

In terms of HTML/CSS and this site, the mask is applied to an outer container div, inside of which the actual image you want to display is contained.   The mask covers the image, and only displays the portions of the image that are under the *opaque* pixels of the mask.   Any portion of the image that are under the *transparent* pixels of the mask is not shown, but instead you see the page background.  